## **Definition**

- **One execution of a program**: A process can be regarded as an instance of program execution.

- **Active process**: A process is an activity that occurs when a program and its data are executed sequentially on a processor.

- **Resource management and scheduling unit**: A process is a process in which a program with independent functions runs on a data set, and is an independent unit of system resource allocation and scheduling.

## **Composition**

- **Program Control Block (PCB)**: Contains information required by the operating system to manage processes, including process description information, control and management information, resource allocation list, and processor related information.

- **Program segment**: An area used to store program code.

- **Data segment**: Stores data used or generated when a program is running, such as global variables, local variables, and macro-defined constants.

- **Process image**: The whole composed of program control block, program segment, and data segment is called process image.

## **Process characteristics**

- **Dynamicity**: The most basic characteristic of a process, indicating that it is a dynamic process, from generation to change to extinction.

- **Concurrency**: Multiple processes can exist in memory, and these processes can be executed concurrently.
- **Independence**: Processes can run independently, obtain resources independently, and serve as independent scheduling units.
- **Asynchrony**: Each process advances at its own speed, and the operating system provides a synchronization mechanism to solve the asynchronous problem.
- **Structural**: Structurally, a process consists of a program segment, a data segment, and a program control block (PCB), collectively referred to as a "process image."